Assignment 2 Analysis


  The first map, which utilizes dot density to plot out different types of noise complaints within NTAs of Manhattan, shows a lot of information and nuances. First of all, it is clear from the color “thickness” that the upper and lower parts of the Manhattan Area had the most amount of noise complaints over the given time interval. Namely, these areas are characterized by an excessive amount of “Loud Music/Parties” complaints, which seem to be the dominant complaint category overall among the data. In addition to these two areas, West midtown also seems to be quite noisy. However, this area is characterized by more of a variety of noises. This is shown by the abundance of “Others” complaints. The fact that these areas contain the most complaints is also reenforced by the second map of this assignment — the choropleth map that shows NTAs with least to most noise complaints in general. Again, these areas are the upper zones — which contain Harlem and Washington Heights, the lower zones — Chelsea, Greenwich Village and Chinatown, and West Midtown — mainly the Upper West Side.
  
   Overall Map 1 shows Manhattan to be a very noisy area. From personal experience, this seems quite true. There are many reasons for particular areas to be nosier than others. It could be potentially related to the overall age group living particular areas. Young people tend to be much louder and more energetic than older people. Another reason could be gentrification and socioeconomic division. Harlem is known by many to be a majority colored, low-income neighborhood. This represents a lack of infrastructure investment and renovation that could lead to poorer education quality, ultimately resulting in more young people turning to drugs, alcohol, and partying.
   
  Map 1 also goes into detail to express the most common and least common forms of noise complaints. Loud music is the most common complaint, and animals and ice cream trucks are among the least common. Because of Manhattan’s super-high population density, most residents live in closely packed apartment buildings with poor sound barriers. In this respect, it makes sense why music is the most common complaint. It also appears that there are a lot more construction projects going on in the lower parts of Manhattan, further emphasizing the point that upper areas may be receiving less infrastructural support from the government.
  
  After exploring Map 1 and 2, Map 3 is much more specific with the message it conveys to the map readers. Map 3 looks at the relationship between the median age and the number of 311 “Loud Music” complaints within areas of Manhattan. Although not perfect, Map 3 does somewhat confirm that these complaints are generally seen among areas with younger people. It is clear that the dark blue zones have the least complaints, and that the lighter zones tend to have a lot of “Loud Music” complaints.

